Brooklyn, NY - October 29, 2009 - Prospect Park Zoo recently "rocked
the house" with a trio of new yellow footed rock wallabies in the
Australian Walkabout on Discovery Trail.  The new wallabies share their
home with Western great grey kangaroos, Bennett's wallabies, a Cape
Barren goose and a pair of emu, giant flightless birds.  The male rock
wallaby, "Darwin," hails from Lowry Park Zoo in Florida while the two
females, "Sydney" and "Adelaide," came all the way from the Adelaide
Zoo in Australia.



Rock wallabies live in rocky outcroppings in South Australia and New
South Wales.  Their extra large hind feet have been compared to
off-road tires on a car, they have extra padding and bumps for traction
which helps rock wallabies jump across rock faces.  Rock wallabies can
jump more than twice their height but can make truly spectacular leaps
by "cannoning" off upright surfaces, achieving distances of up to 16
feet.



Visit today and Rock On with the wallabies.

Contact:
Fran Hackett - fhackett@wcs.org, 718-265-3428



Prospect Park Zoo - Open every day of the year. Admission is $7 for
adults, $4 for seniors 65 and older, $3 for kids 3-12, free for
children under 3. Zoo hours are 10am to 5pm weekdays, and 10am - 5:30pm
weekends, April through October, and 10am - 4:30pm daily, November
through April.  The Prospect Park Zoo is located at 450 Flatbush Avenue
in Prospect Park, Brooklyn. For further information, call 718-399-7339
or visit www.prospectparkzoo.com <http://www.prospectparkzoo.com/> .



The Wildlife Conservation Society saves wildlife and wild places
worldwide.  We do so through science, global conservation, education
and the management of the world's largest system of urban wildlife
parks, led by the flagship Bronx Zoo.  Together these activities change
attitudes towards nature and help people imagine wildlife and humans
living in harmony.  WCS is committed to this mission because it is
essential to the integrity of life on Earth.