Making of a conflict zone: humans vs tigers in a Maharashtra forest 

 

23 May 2019

Human deaths
in wildlife attacks have been rising in the forests of Brahmapuri in
Maharashtra, from six in 2006 to 18 in 2018, most of them in tiger and
leopard attacks (The Indian Express, May 20). A look at the factors
leading to the area’s emergence as a human-wildlife conflict zone, and
the mitigation measures taken or explored:

The area

The
1,200-sq-km Brahmapuri forest division of Chandrapur district — home to
41 tigers (16 males, 25 females, besides some 15-16 cubs) as well as
80-90 leopards — is not a tiger reserve. It has been a mix of about
1,000 sq km territorial forest and about 200 sq km Forest Development
Corporation of Maharashtra area. About two years ago, 153 sq km of it
was declared as Ghodazari Wildlife Sanctuary. It is a protected area
from the perspective of commercial forestry, but not so from a wildlife
point of view. Contiguous with the 625-sq-km Tadoba-Andhari Tiger
Reserve (TATR) with over 44 tigers , Brahmapuri is today the most
precious tiger-bearing non-protected area in the country.

Tiger population

Among
the reasons for Brahmapuri emerging a hotspot for human-wildlife
conflict, the most obvious is the growth of tiger numbers, from about
15-16 in 2013 to 41 now. With TATR packed with tigers, part of its
population has dispersed to adjacent forests in Brahmapuri and other
areas. Chandrapur district as a whole has more than 100 tigers,
possibly the highest for a district anywhere in the country. Also,
outside TATR, the tigers are spread mostly in Brahmapuri area. But
while TATR’s 44 tigers have to live with only two
yet-to-be-rehabilitated villages, Brahmapuri’s 41 tigers have to live
with over 610 villages, half of them close to the forest.




Read
full story here