Another tiger crisis

 

29 June 2019


Tigers
tend to get maligned every time they display aberrant behaviour and
become the subject of alarmist headlines that make them a feared
monstrosity rather than the endangered species that they could become.
Yet the fact of the matter is we need to study the conditions and
reasons for their uncharacteristic behaviour and mutations and factor
them in future wildlife conservation policies. The latest Government
study, done with the Corbett National Park authorities, which has found
that park tigers have killed and eaten elephants, at first sounds
incredible and unbelievable. Considering the different physical
dimensions of both creatures and the fact that elephants move in herds,
a tiger’s kill potential indeed seems microscopic. But it is not
impossible, considering the tiger is remarkably agile, adaptive, has
penetrative canines and claws and is extremely intelligent, isolating
stray members of any pack animal before the hunt. Elephant calves can
become its prime target, even borne out by the study which says that
carcasses of the young were the maximum among the 60 per cent deaths
because of tiger attacks. Besides, the big cat attacks the trunk, the
major food conduit of the elephant which usually dies on its own
subsequently, unable to eat and nourish itself back to health. Also, as
the Sundarbans tiger has shown, the big cat can alter hunting behaviour
according to its location. For example, African leopards have taken
down the largest antelopes as elands, greater kudus and wildebeests,
though they are more than five times heavier than their own size.
Lions, too, there have taken down elephant calves. Which is why the
study is worrying wildlife experts as tigers usually don’t eat
elephants and this could be the beginning of a new intra-wild species
conflict.


Read
full story here