Green Tribunal pours cold water on construction in Thekkady Tiger Reserve
 

THE HINDU
11 March 2014 

Interim order passed to restrain Kerala authorities from going ahead with plans

:
The National Green Tribunal, Southern Bench on Monday restrained the
authorities in Kerala from proceeding with any development and
construction activities in the Periya Tiger Reserve in Thekkady, Idukki
district.

The Bench comprising its judicial member Justice M.
Chockalingam and expert member Prof. R. Nagendran passed the interim
order on an application filed by M.S.Thankappan, a resident of Thekkady.

In
its application, Mr.Thankappan said that at present the Forests and
Wildlife Department was developing a car park at 20 acres inside the
wildlife habitat at Anavacahal inside the Periyar Wildlife Sanctuary at
Thekkady. While granting sanction for a tiger conservation plan, the
National Tiger Conservation Authority imposed a condition that the
project should not overrule the existing laws of the country. Following
the sanction, the Department of Tourism decided to develop the area and
make certain constructions including shopping mall and other buildings
that too without obtaining clearance from a centrally empowered
committee. “As per provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act 1980,
the authorities have no right to use forest land for non-forestry
purposes like development for car parking, construction of buildings.
The activities undertaken are non-forestry activities and that will
adversely affect the wildlife and the forest ecology”, the applicant
added.
read more