Saving the Indian tiger

Â 

8th Nov., 2016




Wild tigers are a rare species in the world. According to the
Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), 110 tigers died this year.
Out of that, 68 tigers died due to natural causes and the remaining 42
due to poaching and seizures. It is thus an alarming situation that
close to half of the total tigers in the wild have died due to poaching
and seizures. Tiger is the national animal of India. It is with regret
that the abysmal status of the national animal must be acknowledged.
The tiger conundrum, if it can be called so, is hard to understand. On
the one hand, tigers are officially given the status that exemplifies
the highhandedness of the state. On the other, they are left at the
mercy of poachers in the wild who face no difficulty in killing them
for illegal monetary gain. In 2015, 91 tigers died in the wild, 65 due
to natural mortality and 26 due to poaching and seizures. In
comparison, 2016 stands worse than the previous year; and there are
seven more weeks to go till the closure of the year.

With the
current rate of poaching, the number may expectedly rise to the
detriment of the increasingly rare animal. The numbers are an enigma as
the WPSI mentions that the Customs officials do not rely on any
official data. To infer the number of tiger deaths in a year, they
multiply the official number by 10. In all such scenario, this number,
not to say the method, is unacceptable for a civilised nation. This is
not to raise doubts on the veracity that the Customs officials try to
look for but the debilitating numbers they infer. Going by the Customs'
statistical method, it would not be wrong to conclude that more than
420 dead tigers have been traded in the international market this year.
Although a caveat must be put in place that the number may not reflect
only on Indian tigers, but perhaps does include the total number of
tigers traded worldwide this year. Although the WPSI maintains that the
number that the Customs officials infer are for Indian tigers alone. If
this is an accurate number, then the Ministry of Environment, Forests
and Climate Change, the Indian Forest Service and environmental
activists must re-evaluate their aims and methods to save Indian tigers.





Read
full story here