Tigress killing condemned; NTCA to send fact-finding team

Â 




Vijay Pinjarkar, TNN | Sep 26, 2011

NAGPUR:
Even as the brutal killing of the Maharashtra tigress by a furious mob
in Bhakru Tola near Bamni on the Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border is
being widely condemned, the National Tiger Conservation Authority
(NTCA) will send a fact-finding team to ascertain the truth.

The
full-grown tigress (around 4 years) was beaten to death right in front
of the Rajnandgaon DFO and other field staff by a mob of over 5,000
villagers on Saturday.

"We've taken a serious note and are
considering sending a fact-finding team to look into all aspects of the
incident," SP Yadav, joint director of NTCA told TOI on Sunday.

When
asked whether the NTCA nod was sought before releasing the tigress in
the Navegaon National Park, Yadav said, he will have to check up. NTCA
member-secretary Rajesh Gopal did not respond to the calls made to him.

State
officials deny or are not ready to confirm whether it is the same
tigress that was released in Navegaon. However, there are indications
from the field staff that it is the same tigress that was spotted in
the South Deori range. A forest official even confirmed that the
pugmarks of the dead tigress matched with the ones recorded by them.

The
brutal killing of tigress has come in for sharp criticism. Kishor
Rithe, member, National Board for Wildlife (NBWL), condemned the act of
the villagers. "People should feel ashamed for killing the vehicle of
'Durga' especially ahead of Navratri," he said.

When B Majumdar
was PCCF (wildlife), he had started the practice of fitting transmitter
chips below the tail of problem leopards trapped in Chandrapur.
However, the practice seems to have been discontinued. Both the
Katlabodi and the Navegaon tigress were not fitted with chips nor were
they radio-collared.

Rithe said that such gears are good tools
to monitor animals post their release into the wild. "The practice
should not be stopped. If it is the Navegaon tigress, it supports the
claim that there is a strong connectivity between Nagzira-Navegaon to
the Chhattisgarh forest and tigers still disperse through the corridor
which needs to be protected," Rithe said.

On the release of
problem tigress in Navegaon, Rithe said every tigress which is released
is only after permission from the NTCA. "If it is a fit case for
release, then only NTCA gives it nod," he added.

Nitin Desai,
director of Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), Central India,
says the incident proves that people don't have sympathy towards
wildlife.

"It is still a source of cheap meat and tigers
continue to be considered as perpetual nuisance. The department needs
to wake up now," Desai stressed.

read more