Barring China, other member countries of CITES unanimous on curbing tiger farming for trade

Â 



Seema Sharma | TNN | Times of India
Oct 5, 2016, 04.52 PM IST

DEHRADUN:
At the 17th Conference of the Parties (CoP) to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) which concluded
recently at Johnesburg, the member countries India, Nepal, the USA,
European Union and Lao' People's Democratic Republic overruled a
proposal from China to do away with the decision to end tiger farming.
China was alone in opposing the decision, which states that "tigers
should not be bred for trade in their parts and derivatives."

Avinash
Basker, senior member of the WPSI said "The fact that there was no
support for the Chinese proposal is a really encouraging sign. It shows
that almost all parties are convinced that the breeding of tigers for
their parts and derivatives is a serious conservation threat to wild
tigers."

According to sources, there are fewer than 4,000 wild
tigers remaining, with populations functionally extinct in some range
states. The conservation of wild tigers requires action to end all
trade in tiger parts and derivatives, and reduce and eventually
eliminate demand for these products. Trade in parts and derivatives of
captive bred tigers continues to be a threat, perpetuating the
desirability of tiger products and stimulating poaching of wild tigers
and other Asian big cats. Undeniably, wild tigers are doing best in
range States where they are not considered a commodity and where they
are not bred for trade in their parts and derivatives.






read more