Tiger poacher snared after 15-yr hunt

Â 




Times of India, TNN | Oct 20, 2016

Gurgaon:
Bheema, a notorious tiger poacher and master of disguise who evaded
police in three states for 15 years, was snared in Gurgaon this week as
law enforcers finally saw through his latest camouflage. Bheema was
dressed like an ascetic in saffron robes when the cops nabbed him
outside his house in Old Gurgaon.

The last time police came
close to arresting him, this March, Bheema had managed to escape by
disguising himself as a beggar. A team of informers checking on
Bheema's whereabouts had spotted a monk frequently coming to the house
in Surat Nagar, speaking with its residents for a while and then going
away. The police decided to move in when the 'sadhu' was spotted again
on October 17 afternoon. Bheema had no chance of escape. After
confirming the man they arrested was indeed Bheema, police took him to
the environment court in Faridabad on Tuesday and got his custody for
two days.

Bheema is wanted in half a dozen cases of poaching in
Uttarakhand, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The 47-year-old is a member of
the Bawaria gang and had been arrested in Uttarakhand's Chamoli in
2002. But he got bail and slipped under the radar to continue with his
illegal trade of smuggling tiger skin, meat and bones.

The house
in Surat Nagar, where Bheema's wife and six children live, has been
under observation since 2008. Police sources said Bheema also
sporadically lived in the house but still managed to evade arrest every
time they got close.






read more