Voluntary
plastic clean-up drive in Sunderbans

Â 

TIMES OF INDIA

By Subhro Niyogi, TNN | Dec 14, 2012, 02.53 PM IST



KOLKATA: A grassroots-level NGO in the Sunderbans joined hands with the
state forest department and police to start a volunteer-based clean-up
drive to rid the archipelago of plastic and thermocol waste. Past
attempts to tackle the problem through awareness campaigns and fines
have failed to yield results.



"Over
the years, various methods have been tried out to stop tourists from
bringing plastic and littering them in the Sunderbans. But they have
proved ineffective due to the nature of
tourism that is popular in the mangrove delta. Most of them are
picnickers out to have fun with no concern for jungle or environment.
Hence, trying to educate them is useless. Since it is the people of
Sunderbans living off its resources who suffer, we have decided to form
teams of volunteers to clean up the mess periodically," said Bali
Nature Club founder secretary and principal field officer of Wildlife
Protection Society of India Anil Mistry.



Of the 1.5 lakh visitors that Sunderbans draws annually, nearly 80% are
the picnicking lot. Usually, groups of 30-40 people board a launch and
head into the jungle. They have a hearty meal, play loud music and
dance. Thermocol plates and glasses and polybags are discarded into the
river. Even when boat operators collect the waste, they don't have the
sense to dump it away from the shore. As a result, all the waste is
washed back into the river during high tide.



"We've tried speaking to the tourists and imposing hefty fines on boats
that litter. But monitoring is very difficult as there are too many
entry and exit points. Hence, when Mistry came up with the proposal of
getting volunteers to clean up the riverbanks once a fortnight, we
embraced it," said Sunderban Tiger Reserve field director Subrat
Mukherjee said. Sonakhali, Gathkhali, Pakhiralay, Jharkhali, Kaikhali,
Kalitola and Dhamakhali are all used by tourists to access the
Sunderbans.



On Monday, two dozen students participated in the clean-up drive from
Gathkhali along the banks of Durgaduani, Gumbi and Bidya rivers,
covering a 10-km stretch. "There were thousands of plastic bottles,
snack packets, carry bags and liquor bottles littered in the mangrove
trees along the shore line. It was tough work but I felt a sense of
contributing to the preservation of the environment," said class XI
student Ekadashi Mondal, one of the participants in the clean-up
exercise. After collecting the waste, it was segregated into recyclable
and non-recyclable material. The latter was then burnt in an
incinerator.more info