Links between terrorism and wildlife trade
 

ENS Newswire - Sep 26, 2013

NEW
YORK, New York, September 26, 2013 (ENS) – At the United Nations today,
the war on wildlife crime was in the spotlight as heads of state and
ministers detailed the impacts of poaching and illicit wildlife
trafficking and called for a concerted international crackdown.

The
high level meeting, convened under the title Poaching and illicit
wildlife trafficking – a multidimensional crime and a growing challenge
to the international community, was hosted by the governments of
Germany and Gabon. It was attended by ministers and other high level
representatives from Belgium, Chad, Colombia, Norway, Thailand, the
United Kingdom, and the United States.

Jan Eliasson, deputy
secretary-general of the United Nations, told participants, “Key
species are being driven to extinction. The proceeds of illegal trade
support transnational organized crime and terror organizations. Murder
and violence go hand in hand with this despicable business. The illegal
trade in wildlife and endangered species is linked to drug smugglers,
gun runners and human trafficking. It is a threat to all three pillars
of our Organization: human rights, peace and security, and development.

“Fragile
and conflict-affected states are particularly vulnerable because they
lack the means to adequately regulate the exploitation of natural
resources and control borders. For example, the Lord’s Resistance Army
is known to be engaged in the illegal ivory trade in the Democratic
Republic of Congo and the Central African Republic. The illicit gain it
generates is sustaining conflict,” said Eliasson.

Illegal wildlife trade generates an estimated US$19 billion per year.
read more