Elephant Mortality Rates Escalate
                        
                        
                        



                        
                        
                        
                        
                        

                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
3.March, 2008

                        

The Elephant population in India increasingly finds itself under siege
from a number of threats. The most cited and documented reasons for the
high Elephant mortality rates are poaching, electrocution, and
retaliatory killings as a result of human-wildlife conflict. In
addition to this, the one other serious threat that has been
highlighted only over the last few years is Elephant deaths due to
train hits. India has a vast network of railways lines dissecting
crucial and fragile Elephant habitats, affecting mainly the Terai Belt,
North Bengal, Assam, Orissa, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, and sections of
the Nilgiri Biosphere that includes Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala.
Incidences of Elephants being mowed down by speeding trains have seen
an escalation over the last couple of years. There exists no concrete
national policy or guidelines governing the construction or movement of
trains through forested areas. There are some rudimentary laws in place
like speed limitations that trains have to follow on certain routes,
but these are often blatantly flouted. In addition to this there has
not been an adequate effort on the part of the government to address
the issue and create a specific framework under which the railways can
operate in such conditions. The recent incident in which a herd
comprising of three tuskers were hit and killed on the
Coimbatore-Palakkad Railway line only serves to highlight the lack of
preparedness and responsibility of the Railways. 

                        

For further information please follow the link: http://www.thepetitionsite.com/petition/356770254