Doctor among 3 held for smuggling pangolin scales



Mazhar AliÂ Aug 4, 2015

Chandrapur:
Forest officials of Sironcha range in Gadchiroli nabbed two persons
with 8.5kg pangolin scales. The accused hail from Chhattisgarh and had
smuggled the scales to Sironcha for an Asaralli-based doctor Prafulla
Das, who was also arrested on their identification. Trio was produced
before the local court in Sironcha on Sunday evening, from where they
were sent into forest custody remand till August 5.

Forest
officials got a tip-off about the people coming from Chhattisgarh with
the pangolin scales. Accordingly RFO, Sironcha Range AD Karpe laid a
trap for the approaching smugglers on the outskirts of Sironcha town.
Four accused who came on two separate motorbikes were intercepted by
the lurking forest team. Two of them, however, left their bikes and
fled away in the jungle. The raiding team, however, nabbed the two
other accused riding the second bike.

"Accused Samaiyya Gota and
Bakkiaya Jawa, both from Chhatisgarh were arrested in the raid. Two
more accused, however, managed to flee. We have seized 8.5kg pangolin
scales along with two motorbikes from their possession. They had
brought the scales for one Dr Prafulla Das who lives in Asaralli. Dr
Das too was later arrested for his involvement in the crime," said RFO,
Karpe.

ACF, Sironcha forest division, LM Belekar, said "The two
accused tribals and Dr Das appear to be part of a large nexus involved
in smuggling of pangolin scales to south Asian countries from Madhya
Pradesh and other parts of the country. 

Read more