Coal winner as tiger area of 300 football fields diverted



TIMES OF INDIA
Vijay Pinjarkar,TNN | Sep 3, 2015

Â NAGPUR:
At a time when the BJP government in the state is appointing a
consultant to make Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) a world-class
destination and has also named megastar Amitabh Bachchan and cricket
legend Sachin Tendulkar as tiger ambassadors, the forest advisory
committee (FAC) of the ministry of environment, forests and climate
change (MoEFCC) has cleared 121.58 hectare tiger-bearing area (as big
as about 300 football fields) in Durgapur in Chandrapur district for
coal mining to Western Coalfields Limited (WCL).

The clearance
has been granted despite forest officials' site inspection reports
mentioning that reserve forest compartment numbers 400, 401, 402 and
survey no. 262/1 of zudpi jungle, that are proposed to be diverted, has
presence of tigers and leopards besides rich fauna. The diversion of
121.58 hectare forest for Durgapur (deep) extension open cast mine is
to exploit 2 MT coal per annum to be supplied to Chandrapur Super
Thermal Power Station (CSTPS). The Rs42.98 crore project, which was
granted environment clearance on March 16, 2012, will damage tiger
ecology critically as it will involve felling of 13,457 big trees and
64,349 bamboos.

Though the proposed area is 12.25km from the
boundary of Tadoba, it is on the northern side of Chandrapur-Mul road.
The mining area is just 1.2km from the south-western boundary of
TATR-buffer. It is part of the corridor linking TATR with Junona and
further south to Kanhalgaon (proposed sanctuary) then Kawal Tiger
Reserve (Telangana) and Indravati Tiger Reserve (Chhattisgarh).


Read more