Book poachers under strict acts, says Centre



THE ASIAN AGE
Sep 07, 2015
Pramod Kumar, New Delhi


The
Centre, in a significant move to check the illegal trade and poaching
of rare and endangered wildlife species in the country, has advised the
authorities concerned to book all criminals involved, particularly
those kingpins who control the illegal trade, under the stringent
provisions of the Prevention of Money-laundering Act (PMLA).

In
an advisory issued to directors-general of police of all states,
divisional forest officers and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the
Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) said, “There is an urgent need to
identify strategies and approaches that can successfully prevent
illegal trade in wildlife in the country. In this regard it is
essential that the criminals involved are prosecuted and penalised to
provide an effective deterrent. There is also a need to ensure, by
incorporating anti-money laundering and asset forfeiture components
into investigations and prosecutions, that criminals involved in this
illegal trade do not benefit from the proceeds of their crimes.”

“As
per paragraph 6 of the Schedule to PMLA Act, 2002, section 51 of the
Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, read with Sections 9, 17A, 39, 44, 48
and 49B of the said act are scheduled offences. In cases where the
authorities under Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, file a prosecution
complaint before the concerned court, ED can provisionally attach the
proceeds of crime and, after its confirmation by the adjudicating
authority, possession of the property would be taken over by the
directorate so as to prevent the accused from enjoying the property,”
said the advisory. Besides attachment, a separate prosecution for
money-laundering would be launched against persons committing the
offence, it added. The global illegal trade in wildlife and animal
parts  is estimated to be worth $19 billion annually, sources said.

Read more