Apathy derails steps to check jumbo deaths on train tracks

Â 


P Oppili | TNN | Times of India
Oct 5, 2016, 07.09 AM IST

Technology
like early warning and trip alert systems, largely remains on paper,
showing a lack of conscientious efforts on the part of the railways to
reduce the man-animal conflict. A chance discovery by Chennai-based
wildlife activist T Gopi Mohan and his friend Ravi in the forest areas
in Coimbatore showed that the various measures proposed to reduce
elephant deaths on railway tracks near Walayar and Ettimadai railway
stations had not been implemented. "The state wildlife officials said
they would be setting up an early warning system, wherein anyone who
spots elephants would alert train drivers, but nothing has been done in
this regard," said Gopi Mohan, noting that the system is operating in
Valparai due to the efforts of the private body, Wildlife Conservation
Society.

"Though signboards warning of elephant crossing zones
have been installed along the railway tracks, they are too small to
catch the eyes of drivers in the speeding trains," said Gopi. Gopi
Mohan said interaction with station masters of Walayar and Ettimadai
revealed that there was no network to track movement of elephants.The
setting up of motion sensors, as part of a trip alarm system, to pick
up movement along train tracks has also not seen any progress.

Professor
of Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru and Asian elephant expert
Raman Sukumar said trains hitting elephants has been a persistent
problem in northern part of West Bengal and parts of Assam as well,
particularly because like Tamil Nadu, these states also have a
considerably long train track running through forest land. Only
Jharkhand and Uttarakhand have been able to rein in the problem as the
incidents were confined to a small stretch.





read more