Five tons of live turtles seized near Allahabad
                        
                        
                        



                        
                        
                        
                        
                        

                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
25 January 2009


In one of the largest freshwater turtle hauls ever to be recorded, five
tons of live turtles, numbering about 3,000 animals, were seized in
Allahabad on Thursday, January 22nd by the Special Task Force (STF) of
the Uttar Pradesh Police. The seizure took place at night and three
people, who were transporting the turtles in a truck apparently to
Kolkata, were arrested and sent to Naini Jail.


Three species listed in Schedule 1 of The Wild Life (Protection) Act were
identified; (1) the Indian Flapshell Turtle (Lissemys punctata punctata),
(2) the Ganges or Indian Softshell Turtle (Trionyx gangeticus, Milssonia
gangeticus), and (3) the Spotted Black Terrapin or Spotted Pond Turtle
(Geoclemys hamiltoni). The heaving mass of turtles were stuffed into
about 60 jute sacks, with about 50 to 55 turtles in each. The turtles
were released under a court order on the banks of the Yamuna River on
Friday, in the presence of STF officers, UP state Forest Department
officials, and two representatives from WPSI who travelled to Allahabad
to assist the authorities in this case.


Earlier in the week, 250 tortoises were seized in Kanpur, also in the
state of UP, and one women was arrested. On Sunday, 25 January, four men
were arrested by police in Mainpuri district in UP in possession of 150
tortoises.


There is only limited information on the trade in live turtles and
tortoises, but going by this huge haul in Allahabad and the other recent
seizures, the trade appears to be controlled by an organised nexus of
cross-border wildlife criminals, and to be on the rise.