Man-animal conflict threat looms large over Wayanad

 

14th March 2019

KOZHIKODE:
With forest fires and harsh summer taking a toll on the wildlife
habitat in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu and forcing animals to migrate to
the adjoining forests in Wayanad in large numbers, the hill district is
staring at the possibility of more man-animal conflicts this summer.

Wildlife
experts said that forest fires had wreaked havoc in Mudumalai reserve
and the damage at Bandipur Tiger Reserve was spread across over 10,000
acres. Since they share their borders with Wayanad, wild animals –
including elephants and gaurs – have trooped into Wayanad Wildlife
Sanctuary (WWS) in large numbers in search of food and water, they
added. 

Wildlife experts said that forest fires had wreaked
havoc in Mudumalai reserve and the damage at Bandipur Tiger Reserve was
spread across over 10,000 acres. Since they share their borders with
Wayanad, wild animals – including elephants and gaurs – have trooped
into Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) in large numbers in search of
food and water, they added.“The
increased influx of animals could lead to more incidents of animals
straying into human habitats along fringe forest areas. We are taking
steps to ensure water availability inside WWS by cleaning up water
sources and building check dams (wherever possible) to minimize
conflict,” said chief conservator of forests (wildlife, northern
region) BN Anjan Kumar. Also, one person was killed by a wild elephant
on Tuesday, which in turn highlights the problem faced by residents.




Read
full story here