Nature in peril as contradictory laws continue to threaten conservation

 

14 July 2019


Following
the Supreme Court’s recent interventions in the Forest Rights Act (FRA)
case, a flood of responses from social activists and academics are on
display. We sympathize with the genuine social activists among them,
who have fought for years for what they perceive to be their primary
mission: to distribute all remaining forests and other ‘cultivable
wastelands’ to rural communities to promote agriculture or intensive,
market-linked forest product and biomass extraction. Nor do we dispute
the activist’s contention that such a land-use policy would — at least
temporarily — mitigate some economic hardships faced by its
beneficiaries.

We, however, strongly disagree with their basic
premise that such forest conversion and intensified exploitation is
beneficial to wildlife recovery and nature conservation. Massive
scientific evidence, both globally and within India, clearly
demonstrate that human colonization has been a major driver of habitat
loss and species extinctions. This evidence for global modification of
nature by hunter-gatherers spreading out of Africa, goes back over
60,000 years. In the centuries that followed, initially aided by simple
tools like fire, axe and the plow and later by modern technology humans
succeeded in increasing the capacity of land to support their
populations at densities hundreds of times higher, all at the expense
of wild nature. 

Read
full story here