Three leopard skins seized in Uttarakhand

07 July 2010

New
Delhi: In a late night operation, the Anti-poaching cell of the
Uttarakhand Forest Department, assisted by the Wildlife Protection
Society of India (WPSI), have seized three leopard (Panthera pardus)
skins and leopard bones at Vikasnagar and Kalsi area of Dehradun
district, Uttarakhand.

The enforcement team led by Mr. Paramjit
Singh, Chief Conservator of Forests and Director-Anti-poaching cell,
have arrested three people in this connection. Bullet holes were found
on the skins and it is believed that the animals were killed in the
nearby forest areas of Vikasnagar and Kalsi. One poacher who has
allegedly shot the animal is currently absconding. A case under the
Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 has been registered against the accused
at Chohadpur forest range of Kalsi forest division. The offence is
punishable with imprisonment for a term between three and seven years
and also with a fine not less than ten thousand rupees.

The
number of leopards in India was approximated at 12,000 in 2008.
Poaching, decline of its prey species, habitat loss and conflict with
humans are all threats to this species. Poaching of leopards for their
body parts, however, is the primary reason for their declining numbers.
Of the total of 202 leopard deaths reported in the country so far this
year, fifty four percent of the cases involved either seizure of its
body parts or death due to poaching. 65 leopard deaths, under different
circumstances, have been reported this year from Uttarakhand alone.