Beware, spots fading into extinction in Uttarakhand
Â 
16 July 2010
Paritosh Kimothi | Dehradun

With
more than 70 leopard deaths reported in Uttarakhand since January this
year, alarmed environmentalists have expressed concern that the spotted
feline could become extinct in Uttarakhand in five years if leopard
deaths continue at the current rate. Apart from wildlife poaching,
man-animal conflict is also considered a major factor leading to this.

According
to Uttarakhand head of the Wildlife Protection Society of India
Rajendra Agrawal, there has been an alarming increase in the number of
leopards killed by the villagers by poisoning the carcasses of the
cattle killed by the felines. Apart from such revenge killings, the
leopard population has also been affected because villagers in the
mountainous regions have poached alarming numbers of deer and other
animals which form the natural prey base of the leopard. Without its
natural prey, the leopard ends up killing domestic animals, which again
provokes revenge killings by villagers. 

Agrawal states that
during the previous year about 125 leopard deaths were reported from
Uttarakhand, while in the first seven months of this year, more than 70
leopard deaths have been reported from across the State, caused by
factors, including natural causes, accidents and poaching. About 14 of
these leopards were shot dead after being declared man-eaters. Besides,
more than 25 leopard pelts and more than 50 kg of leopard bones were
also recovered. Agrawal adds that delay in payment of compensation to
persons whose domestic animals were killed by leopards was behind the
increase in revenge killings. 

Citing an example, he says that
human-leopard conflict was a major problem in the Kirtinagar area in
Tehri district about two years ago. However, there is no such problem
now, because the leopard population has been eliminated. In case of
leopards declared man-eaters, shooters deputed by the department end up
shooting the first leopard they spot. 

The tiger is ensured
better protection since irs declining population has elicited world
focus. But, with the leopard not being seen as important as the tiger,
odds are piled up against it, he added.

However, Additional
Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Srikant Chandola says the
department doesn't take unnatural leopard deaths lightly. It undertakes
large-scale tree plantation activity during the monsoon, due to which
the increased presence of department personnel in the forests deters
poachers. Earlier, it could take years before one got compensation for
damages caused by wildlife, but now the victims are compensated within
three months. 

newslink