China calls out Troops to stop the Burning of Skins in Tibet


15th Feb., 2006

                        




Large numbers of troops and police are patrolling the streets of
Rebkong (Quinghai Province), to prevent a bonfire of skins originally
scheduled for 12 February 2006. It appears that the Chinese government
has banned the public burning of chuba costumes trimmed with tiger,
leopard and otter skins.

                        

The authorities apparently saw the planned gathering and bonfire as a
sign of support for the Dalai Lama who had strongly and repeatedly
condemned the wearing of endangered animal skins in Tibet, during the
Kalachakra festival held in January 2006 in India. The Tibet Info Net,
however, stated today that "the campaign has been welcomed by different
groups as a Tibetan contribution towards wildlife conservation and, in
fact, is nothing more than the implementation of existing Chinese
environmental laws and regulations."

                        

In August 2005, a joint investigation by WPSI and EIA revealed the
shocking scale of the use of tiger, leopard and otter skins across the
Tibetan plateau. During the Kalachakra, WPSI, EIA and other
organisations launched an awareness campaign, detailing the terrible
consequences of the tiger and leopard skin trade. Additionally,
dialogue with the Dalai Lama's office ensured that His Holiness was
fully aware of the problem, and was moved enough to speak out against
it during the Kalachakra.

                        

The message is spreading across the Tibetan plateau and the wearing of
endangered animal skins now even invites public ridicule. The Tibetan
people who are burning skins should be applauded for trying to stop the
illegal trade in wildlife skins and for implementing existing wildlife
laws.‚Äù