Tiger found dead in Panna Park






2nd July, 2006

                        

The dead tigress was found intact on Tuesday morning by a Forest
Department patrol party in Panna National Park, 10 km from Hinota in
Amdara nullah. There was no kill, trap or electricity line nearby. The
authorities immediately made the matter public and should be
congratulated for being so open about this tragedy. A post mortem is
being conducted.

                        
                        "

                        Tiger found dead in Panna Park

The Pioneer, Wednesday, May 24, 2006

Pioneer News Service, Bhopal

                        

A tiger was found dead at the Panna National Park on Tuesday. Forest
officials left for Panna to collect the body of the tiger. Officials
maintained that though no marks were found on the body, the actual
cause of death would be known only after the post mortem. A tiger cub
had been found dead at the Panna National Park only a week back.

                        

Additional PCCF Wildlife HS Pabla, while speaking to the Pioneer,
confirmed that a body of a tiger was found on Tuesday morning at the
Panna Range in the Panna National Park. Park officials including the
director and deputy director rushed to the spot to recover the tiger's
body.

                        

According to preliminary reports from Panna the body of the tiger did
not bear any injury marks. Officials, however, did not rule out the
possibility of poaching with poisoning as a possible cause of death.

                        

Panna National Park had shot into prominence last year with forest
department officials and independent wildlife experts disputing the
findings of the annual wildlife census vis-Ã -vis the number of
tigers in the park. The forest department had dismissed the contentions
of the independent wildlife experts but had stepped up anti poaching
operations in the districts of Chattarpur and Panna.

                        

The forest department and police had been working closely and in fact a
review meeting of anti poaching operations had been held by the PCCF
only last week. The police had met with some success in anti poaching
operations and had nabbed some key aides of dreaded poacher Sansarchand
from the area."