WildlifeÂ  Bill to be presented in RS



                        

 

                        The Asian Age, New Delhi

                        


                        New Delhi, July 30: The Wildlife (Protection) Amendment Bill,
2005, which was recently cleared by the Cabinet, will be introduced in
the Rajya Sabha. 

                        


The Cabinet recently cleared the legal provisions of the bill along with
the recommendations of the Tiger Task Force, which has recommended
setting up of National Tiger Conservation Authority Bill and the National
Wildlife Crime Bureau. The enactment of the bill with amendments would
facilitate implementation of the urgent recommendations of the Tiger Task
Force, which was appointed by the Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh.
                        

                        


As per the amendments, Centre will have to constitute a special bureau to
control wildlife crime specially tiger poaching in the country. The move
will strengthen conservation of tigers and other endangered species of
wild animals through effective combating of wildlife crimes. 

                        


The urgent recommendations of the Tiger Task Force also included
strengthening of Project Tiger by giving it statutory as well as
administrative powers, in the form of National Tiger Conservation
Authority. 

                        


The authority will enact normative standards and guidelines for tiger
conservation and will provide information on protection measures
including future conservation plan, tiger estimation, disease
surveillance, mortality survey, management and future plan for
conservation. 

                        


The National Wildlife Crime Bureau, will be on the lines of Central
Bureau of Investigation and will tackle the wildlife poaching in the
country. The move will strengthen conservation of tigers and other
endangered species of wild animals through effective combating of
wildlife crimes. 

                        


The bureau will have to coordinate with concerned authorities in foreign
countries and international organisations for facilitating universal
action towards wildlife crime control will also be looked by the bureau.
The bureau will collect and collate intelligence related to wildlife
crime, its dissemination to states and other enforcement agencies for
immediate action.