Delhi Wildlife Department lockup is robbed


30 October 2006

                        

A robbery took place last week in the Delhi Wildlife Department's
lockup, where case property is kept for evidence in court. A large
amount of raw shatoosh wool, ivory, reptile skin bags and belts, and
fur coats - but no raw skins - are believed to have been stolen.
According to one report, the robbers brought a vehicle to carry the
goods from the godown. The incident is being taken very seriously by
the Department.

                        

                        

The Indian Express

Animal parts stolen from wildlife godown

Deepak Pandey

New Delhi - 28 October 2006

                        

Animal fur and other body parts worth several lakhs were stolen from
the Wildlife Department's godown on Ridge Road earlier this week,
acording to Maurice Nagar police.

                        

Three to four unidentified men had, on Monday night, robbed animal furs
and other parts which had reportedly been seized by wildlife officials
in raids in the capital and neighbouring areas over the past few months,
said the police.

                        

No security guard was posted outside the godown, which is situated in
Kamla Nehru ridge near Delhi univeristy, said police. According to
police, three guards of the adjacent forest office, who rushed to the
spot upon hearing some noise, were locked up in a room. The men fled
with at least 10 bags of animal furs (used for making shahtoosh shawls)
and other valuable animal parts, police added.

                        

Maurice Nagar police lodged an FIR under section 380 and 458 of the IPC and investigation is on.

                        

The Wildlife Department meanwhile, says there have been lapses in
secuirty at the godown. "There haveÂ been certain lapses but we'll not
repeat them. We had never expected such an incident," said Prabhat
Tyagi, Deputy Conservator of Forests.

                        

Police do not rule out the role of an insider. "Some employee could be
involved in this. We are talking to the guards and it's difficult to
pinpoint anyone at this stage," said a senior police official.

                        

"Security has been tightened considering the sensitivity of the case.
What ever information we have has been forwarded to the police. The
culprits, if found to be from the department, will not be spared,"
Tyagi added.