SC notice to Centre on PIL on tiger reserves


Zee News

New Delhi 13 November 2006

                        

                        

The Supreme Court today sought response from the Centre and the state
governments on a PIL challenging the creation of tiger reserves in the
already existing national parks and sanctuaries by bringing amendments
in the Wildlife (Protection) Act.

                        

A bench of Chief Justice Y K Sabharwal and Justice C K Thakker issued
notices to Ministry of Environment and Forests, Tiger Conservation
Authority and state governments on the allegation that provisions
incorporated in this regard diluted and repealed some of the salutary
provisions of the act.

                        

The PIL filed jointly by NGOs, Bombay Natural History Society, Wildlife
Protection Society of India, Wildlife First and Conservation of Action
Trust, has objected to inclusion of new chapters, namely IV B and IV C,
for the establishment of the National Tiger Conservation Authority
(NTCA) and the tiger and other endangered species crime control bureau.

                        

Advocate Raj Panjwani, appearing for the NGOs, contended that the new
additions in the legislation diluted the existing provisions, which
were specifically incorporated for the protection of the wildlife and
its habitat.

                        

The PIL has challenged the government's September 4 notification for constituting the NTCA.

                        

The counsel contended that the creation of tiger reserves will take
away stringent conditions which are applicable in national parks and
sanctuaries for the protection of the wildlife and its habitat.

                        

While contending that the new provisions in the act are ultra vires of
article 21 of the constitution, the NGOs submitted that the act be
allowed to be applicable to already existing sanctuaries and national
parks irrespective of such areas being notified as tiger reserves with
earlier provisions.

                        

Bureau Report