Build a Tiger Online
                        
                        

                        Web Campaign Seeks Photos to Stop Tiger Trade

Â 

Thirty tiger conservation groups this week launched a worldwide
campaign to collect supporters pictures online to create the worlds
largest photo mosaic of a tiger. The mosaic, built with thousands of
photos from tiger lovers submitted around the globe, will be unveiled
to world leaders in June as they gather to discuss trade in endangered
species. 

                        

Supporters of tiger conservation can take part in the campaign by uploading their photos to http://www.savethetigerfund.org/mosaic. Visitors to the mosaic can zoom in on the larger tiger picture and find images submitted of themselves and family and friends.

                        

The mosaic campaign was launched as China considers lifting its ban on
trade in tiger bone and other body parts, a move that would be
disastrous for wild tigers since an increase in poaching would
immediately follow. 

                        

This is a fun, interactive web tool with a serious goal. We decided
that the most powerful message would come from having the public weigh
in, voting for tiger conservation with their faces, said Judy Mills,
director of the Campaign Against Tiger Trafficking. The aim of the
mosaic is to send a united message that the world believes Chinas
current ban on tiger trade is absolutely necessary for the future of
tigers in the wild.

                        

Supporters will also have the opportunity to send a note to Chinas
leaders recognizing them for their effective 1993 ban on tiger trade
and urging them to maintain the ban. These messages of appreciation
will be hand delivered to officials in China. The mosaic itself will be
presented to representatives from 171 countries at the Convention on
International Trade of Endangered Species (CITES) meeting in June. 

                        

Your photos and actions could help save tigers, said Belinda Wright,
executive director of Wildlife Protection Society of India. The Chinese
government is being pressured to lift the ban and be able to sell tiger
bone wine, tiger meat and skins. This would make it open season on the
fewer than 5,000 tigers left in the wild, with criminals seeing the
Chinese market as an easy way to launder tigers poached from the wild.

                        

An international coalition of 30 organizations including
conservationists, animal welfare groups, traditional Chinese medicine
organizations and zoos is organizing this interactive campaign to save
wild tigers.